---
layout: post
current: post
cover:  assets/images/welcome.jpg
navigation: True
title: AI4India
date: 2017-07-27 10:00:00
tags: [Introduction]
class: post-template
subclass: 'post tag-getting-started'
author: ghost
---
AI4India is an open community led by university students and professors to teach, identify, develop, and deploy AI to address India-specific challenges.


### What We do?

We view AI4India as a platform for three major activities. 
* First, rigorously curating challenges across domains for which AI solutions can be developed to bring proven societal value at scale. 
* Second, maturing AI innovations and technologies to final products so that they reach those it can a make a difference to. 
* Finally, teaching and sharing best practices to create capacity for sustained innovation.

### There are a few things that you should know up-front:
1. Ghost is designed for ambitious, professional publishers who want to actively build a business around their content. That's who it works best for. If you're using Ghost for some other purpose, that's fine too - but it might not be the best choice for you.
2. The entire platform can be modified and customized to suit your needs, which is very powerful, but doing so **does** require some knowledge of code. Ghost is not necessarily a good platform for beginners or people who just want a simple personal blog.
3. For the best experience we recommend downloading the Ghost Desktop App for your computer, which is the best way to access your Ghost site on a desktop device.


### Background

We have all heard about Artificial Intelligence or AI. We usually hear two narratives. On the one hand, we hear of the extraordinary technological progress in the recent years which enables machines to understand images, talk to us in natural language, diagnose diseases, profitably trade stocks, and win complex games against humans. On the other hand, we hear concerns on the displacement of human jobs, erosion of privacy, concentration of power and income. Both these narratives are relevant. Undoubtedly, AI is poised as a disruptive technology that continues to change every aspect of our lives including eating, shopping, traveling, learning, socialising, and our well-being. Thus, many companies continue to  invest in innovating on AI technology and building commercially viable offerings. 
But AI also needs to be better understood, partially regulated, and, most importantly, democratised. Specifically on democratisation, there is a strong case for applying cutting-edge AI technologies to solve challenges which may not be commercially viable but can bring immense  value to societies, governments, or individuals. Universities as hot-beds for innovation, creativity, and openness, are ideally placed to champion such democratisation. 
